hey guys and welcome to my channel today
I'm gonna answer 25 of your questions
regarding studying in the US you've
asked me them on Instagram if you're not
following me on Instagram yet it's so
lingua morena please make sure to follow
me because I post stories in English
daily about life here in the US about
you know business and studying so make
sure to follow me and let's move on to
those 25 questions
[Music]
question number one
general advice for everyone who's
seeking education in the United States
my general advice just be ready to work
hard it takes time to get admitted here
because you have to make sure you have
all your recommendation letters personal
statements exams ready your English
should be good enough
second you need to make sure you have
money to pay for your education or if
you're applying for financially it's
even a longer process and it requires a
lot of again research like what
university is financial aid I'm gonna
talk about that a little later it's just
a little work so make sure you have
enough time don't be like oh I want to
study in the US starting next month that
might happen if you're playing for a
language course but if you're applying
for like bachelors and masters it's
gonna take a while okay question number
two I'm just gonna explain how
educational system in the u.s. works so
if you're an international student
coming without your parents you're gonna
pay around twenty five thousand dollars
a year and that's tuition accommodation
and your food every so everything is
included it starts at twenty five
thousand dollars a year if you are here
already if one of your parents is a
resident then there is a free school
that's a completely different topic and
I'm mostly talking about international
students here if you want to do your
bachelor's what you need is the unis do
high school education from your country
there is no like a foundation program or
whatever you might have heard about that
in the UK America is very democratic and
accepts you a high school diploma from
your country so no worries about that
bachelor's program lasts for four years
I would say apply during the last year
of your school education but again there
is no age limit you can also finish your
school spend some time working and then
apply for your bachelor's master's
program lasts from one to two years you
would need a bachelor's diploma from
your country to apply again you can
apply later in your life I apply it I
think I've lied who was it 2014 I've
lied two years after graduation from my
bachelor's program in Russia you can
also do your MBA MBA is the same as
masters but it's mostly a program for
managers and there's also PhD PhD
the program where there's 99% chance to
gonna get some financial aid it's really
good in terms of financing but it's a
full-time program it's four years and
you spend those four years doing your
research
it's everyday hard work and in order to
get accepted you need to prove that you
have some significant experience in
research
number three exams that you need to take
this is a very interesting part so first
of all there's this examination called
TOEFL and TOEFL is something that you
have to take doesn't matter which
program you're applying to TOEFL is an
examination that checks your level of
English they have four parts speaking
reading listening writing and you
absolutely have to take it and my advice
is start preparing for it as early as
possible and by the way we just released
a completely new intensive course a way
you can prepare for TOEFL online the
link will be below the thing is there
are a lot of changes this year to TOEFL
examination it will prepare this brand
new course to make sure we cover all of
those changes and in this course you're
gonna be able to find all the templates
that you need to pass TOEFL we're gonna
explain how people actually check your
TOEFL exercises how they look at you and
we created this course because it took
me a while to figure out what are the
best resources to prepare for this exam
and we just grabbed like all the best
resources created the scores together
with other teachers who have scored 118
on TOEFL out of 120 I score it 117 out
of 120 so you're gonna get all the
templates you're gonna get all the
explanations for all four parts you're
gonna get exercises that you can work on
make sure to hit a link below to enroll
in this course it's gonna be really
useful and I think this is the only
resource that you need to prepare for
TOEFL yes of course you need your
English but then you don't need any
extra books to get ready for this exam
and again you need it for any program in
the US the link is below there are some
other exams that you need if you're
applying for a bachelors program if it's
a competitive program like if it's not a
competitive program TOEFL would be
enough if it's a very competitive
program you would also need a fast
SATs subjects for master's programs
there is a GRE exam which is mostly for
assent
slash humanitarian subjects and there is
GMAT for economics the same for a PhD
but again if it's not a competitive
university one TOEFL exam would be
enough question number four how to apply
to an American University it's actually
very easy you go to the University's
website and hit apply and everything is
online you just attach scanned documents
recommendation letters personal
statement like everything is online and
then you hear from them also online
you're gonna receive like an email some
universities will ask you to come on
campus for an interview but that's only
top universities like MIT Harvard the
rest with either half interview via
Skype or not have it at all
question number five what is Americans
relationship to foreigners a lot of
universities are very international so
don't be scared especially if we're
talking about big cities New York like
Los Angeles San Francisco there's so
many immigrants here so everything
should be fine please don't worry about
it just make sure your English is good
enough so you can communicate with other
people but in general people are very
friendly I've been in the US since 2015
I've never ever had a problem because
I'm a Russian girl you know if you're
smiling if you are not socially awkward
if you're good at communicating with
people then you won't have any problems
so please don't worry about that how
often should I be in classes during my
studies in America you will have a
chance to choose your own subjects and
you have a chance to choose hello that
you are during the semester for example
you can take ten classes or you can take
three classes and then it depends how
much time you're gonna spend studying
but also make sure you have enough time
for rest for self-work because in
America the program is structured in a
way that yes you receive some tuition in
class but you also have to do a lot of
homework read books work on your
projects and stuff so don't overload
yourself but be ready to spend five to
six hours in classes per day and then
you know two or three hours in the
library making sure you have all your
homework done the next question why I
decided to go to America instead of
Germany so
I studied in Germany when I was twenty
years old nine years ago and when I came
there like I love Germany Germany is one
of my favourite countries and I love
going there I love coming back there but
the thing is the mentality is just not
mine like Europe is not my mentality in
terms of what I want to be now maybe in
five years this changes completely but
right now I want to be surrounded by
people who are very successful because I
you know I just see how I grow here in
the US and when you realize like here in
San Francisco you're surrounded by
people who are billionaires and they
started with like a small start-up and
now the startup is Instagram or they
started with a small travel company now
this company's Airbnb and you like maybe
I have a chance as well you know people
come here with nothing and they hustle
and then they become really successful
this is something that I'm looking for
for myself whereas in Europe
everything is super relaxed like nothing
works on the weekends everyone has this
work-life balance you know 5 p.m. I'm
sorry the office is closed I can't help
you yes some people love it and I can
see why people love it but right now at
this stage of my life I just think that
it's a little you know to come in too
slow for me but again this is just my
opinion you really have to make this
decision for yourself safety in the u.s.
I know it's a huge concern and mostly
because there have been a lot of events
recently with mass shootings and you
know with stuff like people getting into
prison and illegal immigration but the
thing is I've done my research like I
prefer to look at statistics and if we
look at stats like why people die in the
u.s. like top reasons would be heart
disease or like cardiac arrest and stuff
car accidents like even in the world
these are top problems the thing is
there are some problems that get a lot
of media attention and we start fearing
them instead of fearing what really
matters like for example if the plane
crashes we get it everywhere in the news
but your chance of dying in a plane
crash is like super super low but your
chance of dying of a heart attack is
huge and instead of like focusing on you
know whether you
it's dangerous to fly whether it's
dangerous to be in this in that place
make sure you're not eating in
McDonald's every day make sure you're
not consuming too much sugar because
this is what actually messes up your
system yes things can happen car
accidents can happen
flights crash etc but if you just avoid
those things and sit in the tent and
continue eating sugar there's like more
probability that something's gonna
happen to you so just focus on
statistics you can always research the
safety of you know the town you're going
to there is open stats and research
safety of your own city and compare
again I prefer to look at statistics I
prefer to even stop watching the news
kits again they're talking about events
that are just you know good for media
and this is not a good picture of what
you should be afraid of in your life
because I will prefer if they talked
about like bad influence of sugar and
fast food on your body every day in the
news instead of like focusing on
something that's just you know really
loud and huge event etc what should I
study great question so again I think
that you should only study things that
you're interested in and if I tell you
like hey you know if you study IT or
engineering you're gonna have really
good chance of getting a job which is
true but if you hate it you're gonna hit
your life and you were brought to this
world not to hate your life you were
brought to this world to do something
that you're passionate about and if I
tell you like become a youtuber or
something like there are so many
examples when people just do things that
are not mainstream and they become
successful and so the main question that
you should ask yourself what I enjoy
doing and try to scale it a little like
if you're enjoy playing games would you
be happy to design a game by yourself
and this is like game design and this is
a great thing to do in your life you're
interested in painting would you be
interested in becoming graphic designer
and this is also a great profession but
in general engineers IT specialists are
in very high demand very easy to get a
job - job how much is the tuition
okay so bachelor's you can find programs
that are as cheap as three four five
thousand dollars a year but I would say
these
not the best programs and I would say
you'd rather go and study in your own
country in a better place instead of
coming to the yes to get this ya know
very good education good education costs
twenty five thirty thousand dollars a
year some programs at Stanford would be
even more expensive fifty to sixty
thousand dollars a year but again there
is financial aid and there are things
you can do to offset educational costs
okay let's talk about financial aid in
general if you're a good student I would
tell you my case so you can compare but
they're also like you don't have to be
exactly like me my case I was a
straight-a student at the University
I scored seven hundred out of 800 on
GMAT a hundred seventeen out of hundred
twenty on TOEFL I got some really good
prizes from the American government from
German government so I have this really
nice portfolio and I had my startup but
I also know students who have done ten
volunteering jobs and they got financial
aid I will also know students that are
very strong academically who got full
financial aid and you know if we're
talking about financial aid I actually
wrote a book where it you know just gave
all the information I have on financial
aid how to find the right University how
to pass examinations how to reach out a
university inquire about financial aid
and I can go on about this like for a
very long time but yeah there's a link
below I would suggest like just getting
the book and reading everything it's a
it's a pretty long book one video will
not be enough to explain everything so
if you're really interested in getting
financial aid to study in the u.s. the
link is below the book would help you
100% describes everything that I've gone
through if I did work in travel would I
have problems getting a visa the answer
in general if you got accepted to a good
university you won't have trouble
getting a visa like 99% if you got
accepted to a weird university the very
cheap one you don't have travel history
you've done work in travel you've done
all this stuff yes you might not get a
visa so in general I would ask a visa
specialist in New York country to help
you with that but yeah I would say that
if you went on working travel came back
home had no problems and didn't break
the rules when you were here you won't
have any problems with your visa is it
hard to study in the
is it competitive I think the u.s. is
one of the most competitive countries in
the world so yes it's hard to study here
and get ready to work hard but my
favorite saying is that if you make it
here you can make it anywhere so if you
made it in the United States if you're a
good student here it's gonna be very
easy for you to get a job anywhere in
the world it's gonna be easy for you to
start a company here so you know you're
investing yourself you're invested in
your future success when you're young
it's really worth a while to you know
spend time studying and I don't regret
those years when I just sat down you
know studied studied studied every
single day cuz it's paying off
it really helped can I work when I study
yes you can on an f1 visa on the student
visa you get 20 hours of work on campus
if your program suggests that you have
an internship you can apply for a CPT
that means you can work off campus as
well and when you graduate you have this
opt and opt when you can work in the
United States from 1 to 3 years after
graduation and this is full time can I
make savings during studies well I know
some people who made some savings I was
talking to the student and he was really
into Bitcoin I don't know how he's doing
now but he said he saves like thirty
thousand dollars just because he was
like buying Bitcoin and yes I know
people who work in the evenings could
doing some freelance jobs and stuff but
I would say you're coming to the u.s.
not to save money you're coming here to
invest in yourself invest in your
education
I wouldn't necessarily look at this
experience as something when you're you
know building your savings yes this is
when you mostly spend your money and
when you work during your program how
would you mostly use this money to make
your life easier you know to rent an
apartment to eat well to invest in some
social activities and trips but no
really to save money what is better
academic success or publications this is
a really good question I would say that
numbers are really important so when
somebody looks at your resume your
portfolio they would look at what you
scored and TOEFL they would look at your
GMAT score and I would really invest
your time in
you sure your GPAs high your test scores
are high and then if you have some time
left then do your publications to your
conference talks yes they add a lot but
first focus on your numbers the next
question is for me if I want to go back
home and if I miss my mom of course I
miss my mom of course I miss my
grandparents and my father but what I
also realized I go to st. Petersburg
very often what I realized when I'm
there is that yes I love this place but
I get bored really quickly like two
weeks to st. Petersburg and I'm like
what should I do next
because I don't know how to explain it
like here in San Francisco I'm like oh
my god there are so many people who are
so much more successful than I am and
they really need to work hard I want to
meet them you know today I was talking
to team drivers assistant about
interviewing Tim Draper who's a
billionaire and I realized this guy
lives 20 minutes from here I realized
there's instagrams office right here
across the street there's Airbnb down
the road and those guys started as a
small startup and now they're like a
billion dollar company several billion
dollar company this is what I like to be
surrounded by and I think but so my home
doesn't give me that and I'm at this
stage when I want to grow as a
personality grow as an entrepreneur and
I just want to stay here and my mom
comes to visit and I talk to her every
day but I think I'm better off being
here right now maybe that would change
maybe I would move back someday but you
know for sure not this year and not the
next year we'll see we'll see how things
go I will update you on on my progress
but again I think you should invest your
youth into being in a competitive
environment so then you can make your
money or whatever and retire earlier
u.s. or Canada this is a great question
in terms of staying after setting I
would say Canada 100% because you know
what happens in Canada you graduate from
your program you work for one year and
you get this work for MIT and after you
work on the year you can apply for a
residency in Canada which means that
your resident straight away you don't
need an employer to sponsor a visa stop
what happens in the u.s. is
you need to find an employer I was gonna
file for a visa there is h-1b visa which
is competitive because there are only
65,000 visas a year and over 200,000
people apply you can get married in the
US and stay here you can start your own
startup and apply for an o1 visa and
there are also other options but you
need to work for them
and get it or your like if you want to
stay after your setting you just stay
there which is amazing but again these
are two different countries Canada is
more secure
Canada is more relaxed more like Europe
I would say there are not so many top
universities in Canada they receivership
Toronto McGill University I mean
University of British Columbia but
America is Harvard MIT and stuff and
headquarters of top companies that here
in the US Canada is I would say in terms
of like average salary would be lower
level but again it's it depends on your
character it depends on your personality
if you prefer you know the slower life
really safe I've been there it's Canada
if you prefer to hustle if you prefer
you know growing like crazy being really
competitive them it's the u.s. which
state is better for immigrants again
there is no I haven't experienced any
hate towards immigrants I know things
happen so my rule of thumb would be we
have Republicans and we have Democrats
here in the US and Trump is a Republican
and he's you know against illegal
immigration and stuff so a Republican
states would be more unfriendly to it
towards immigrants but if you're an
American and watching correct me if I'm
wrong I don't know because I live in a
democratic state I live in California
and I would say 50% of people here are
immigrants and we love immigrants and
you know I don't even when I talk to a
person I'm know like if he's an
immigrant no he's local because there
are not a lot of people who were born in
San Francisco and still here I
would say like San Francisco is our
immigrants from other states other
countries and stuff so if you're really
worried if this is your fear of phobia
you know just look at states that are
democratic is it hard to get into the
Ivy League that's a great question what
you need to do you need
find a university that you're interested
in and Google this University Plus
acceptance rate and you will see that on
average for Ivy League universities the
acceptance rate is from five to maybe
ten percent which means that out of
hundred people who apply five to ten
people get in yes it's really
competitive but you're not just applying
to one University right when you're
applying to study in the u.s. I would
say play to five six universities to
competitive to average two safety
options and then you will get accepted
what should I do if I have a low GPA do
I have chance of getting accepted yes
you do there's so many universities that
accept people with lower GPAs and yes
they're not like top universities
because for some top universities the
minimum GPA would be three point two out
of four but come on there are lower
ranking universities that you can apply
for probably won't get financial aid
because those universities don't really
provide it but yes you have all the
chances of studying in the US with a low
GPA
are there any scholarships for sportsmen
yes there are but you need to make sure
that you're an active sportsman that you
have your footage from your latest
competitions that your winning prizes at
competitions that you can come here to
the US and play for the team and the
process would look like this you would
need to find a trainer who's at a
University whose training a team reach
out of him tell him how professional you
are he would want to see your
professional sports resume he would want
to see footage from your games and then
he'll be able to tell you whether he
would like to have you on the team and
he would help you with getting a sports
scholarship this is again a lot of work
you would need to do your own research
you would need to reach out to those
people but yeah I know a lot of students
who came here on a sports scholarship
they did tennis they did hockey they did
fencing swimming so those kinds of
sports yes you have chances but again
you have to be an active good sportsman
with proof that you won competitions
residency for tuition purposes this is a
great question for example would take
like a Californian University and we
look at a tuition fees for residents for
California residents there
be like 10 to 12 thousand dollars a year
I'm just you know taking averages for
out-of-state students including
international they would be like 25 to
30 thousand and some people were like on
this to go can I buy a house in
California and you know live there for
two years and qualify for this lower
tuition unfortunately you have to be a
resident in California which means you
pay taxes here you live here you work
here so probably have your green card
right and you live here for again it
depends on the state but it's from one
to two years and if you're already here
and you have that then yes you can
qualify for tuition for residency
purposes but if you're a foreign student
if you're outside the US right now I
wouldn't even worry about that you know
I would focus more on getting financial
aid or applying for scholarships instead
of just you know researching those
residency for tuition purposes options
how much does health insurance cost okay
my health insurance is really expensive
it's around $600 a month and I still
have my copay when I go to see the
doctor
but the thing is healthcare in the u.s.
is really expensive and if something bad
happens you can end up paying hundreds
of thousands of dollars which is not the
best thing to do so insurance is a way
to you know feel safer for students it
depends on where you are it depends on
your University but I would say it's
from 40 to a hundred dollars a month and
the last but not the least how do I stay
in the US after I graduate so we already
talked about opt depending on what you
studied you get from one two three years
of opt which means you can stay in the
US and work if you did stem subjects
then you're gonna stay in the US for
three years and work and if you did
something that's not stem you're gonna
stay for one year and you're a task
during those years is to find a company
that sponsors work visas for foreign
students because some companies don't do
that and for example you go to some
Google's Department and ask them where
they sponsor your visa and they would
say hey no I unfortunately we don't do
that you need to work for our Irish
office and then we're gonna transfer you
here and this is how it works the
company maybe Facebook does that so
you really need to ask and make sure
that you are interning at a company or
working for a company that will be able
to sponsor your visa later on and this
is super important thing that you would
need to do if you want to stay because
again getting a work visa is a process
it's possible and the most common way
the students stay in the u.s. is by
getting the h-1b visa to work for a
particular company but yeah as I
mentioned there are other options like
getting married and starting a startup
and there's political asylum things so
there are many things and you can talk
to a lawyer but my advice to you is you
know do a lot of internships and do them
in companies that sponsor visas and
always ask companies if they're gonna
sponsor a visa for you that was it for
me for today guys thank you so much for
watching this video up to the very end
if you're annoying subscribe just
journal red button below and if you're
not yet subscribe to an Instagram its
lingual marina I highly suggest that you
take her TOEFL course because again
TOEFL is the exam that you need for any
you know speciality any level of
education in the US the link is below
also if you're looking for a financial
aid the link to my book is below thank
you so much for watching this again I
will see you in the next videos and yeah
thank you bye